MCB185 Abstraction Notes
========================

The word **abstraction** is very important in the world of information
technology, but its domain-specific meaning may be unfamiliar to many
biologists. Abstraction comes in many forms.

+ Virtualization
+ Containerizing
+ Virtual Environments
+ Programming
+ Data Interchange


## Virtualization ##

## Containerizing ##

Let's imagine that every cell in your body is a kind of computer. The
_hardware_ is the various organelles. The nucleus is a critical component as
this is the hard disk that stores the _operating system_ (OS). While every cell
has the same OS, not every cell/computer is used the same way. Similarly, many
computers all have the same OS, but some computers are used to write books
while other are used to play games.

In most organisms you think about daily, the genome of every cell is the same
as every other cell. Does this seem wasteful? Why does a muscle cell need to
keep all of the instructions to also be a liver cell when it will never have
such a fate? It turns out that some organisms don't have the same DNA in every
cell. Some organisms have programmed chromosome elimination. This was first
discovered in nematodes and insects, but there are now many known examples from
ciliates to mammals. In these organisms, parts of chromosomes, or even whole
chromosomes are removed from some cells. Imagine a muscle cell that only has
the instructions to be a muscle cell. Sounds both efficient and safe (try
turning cancerous when all you know how to do is flex). For an extreme example,
examine your own red blood cells. Erythrocytes don't have any nucleus at all.
This represents the ultimate in chromosome diminution (and safety).

What does this fascinating bit of biology have anything to do with information
technology? Because computers can have stripped down chromosomes just like some
organisms. This is what is meant by _containerizing_. Instead of keeping around
an entire computer to perform some task, one can provide the minimal resources
the task requires.

## Virtual Environments ##

## Programming ##

## Data Interchange ##
