MCB185: Programming for Biologists
==================================

## Intent ##

In this course, you will learn computer programming in a biological context.
This is not so much a science or data analysis course as an introductory
programming course with a molecular biology theme. Along with programming, you
will be introduced to some essential bioinformatics skills and standards.

## Participation ##

In the real world, programming is generally done in teams. For this reason,
participation is a large part of your grade. There are multiple ways to
participate.

+ Attendance in class during the scheduled time
+ Attendance in online _coderie_ sessions (see below)
+ Activity in the class Discord channel
+ Collaborative coding activities
	+ Organizing a group
	+ Joining a group
	+ Asking for help
	+ Providing help
	+ Solving problems together

## Form vs. Function ##

This is foremost a course about _how_ to program. When faced with a homework
problem, such as "compute the descriptive statistics for a set of numbers", you
could very easily `import statistics` instead of writing the code yourself. In
a professional setting, you _should_ do that. However, the goal here isn't to
_solve_ a problem but to _learn_ how to solve a problem. In many programming
courses, the instructors have automated grading. I would never do that, because
that would mean that the focus was on getting the correct answer. In this
course, the focus is on form as function. It's better to have beautiful code
that is broken than ugly code that solves the problem correctly. The beautiful
code is easier to fix and maintain in the long run.

## Collaboration vs. Plagiarism ##

In this course, you are encouraged to collaborate with other students. If you
work closely with other students, it's entirely possible you will have the
exact same code. In some classes that might be considered plagiarism, but not
here. Each homework assignment has a section where you can list the names of
the collaborators. Not only is this not plagiarism, it's actually encouraged,
and counts towards your participation grade! Just fill out the names of the
authors. It looks like this:

```
# Authors: Ian, Keith, Hannah
```

Working with people is very different from copy-pasting code from the Internet.
If you copy-paste without attribution, it is considered plagiarism. In this
course, you are not allowed to use any concept unless it has been introduced in
a previous or current unit. Getting answers from the Internet, AI, or a more
advanced programmer will frequently result in ILLEGAL code. If you turn in
illegal code, you will be penalized, and if that code is also plagiarized, your
misconduct will be sent to student judicial affairs.

In general, resist copy-paste. Typing words helps you remember what you did
later. Copy-paste is one of the worst ways to learn how to program. Also,
copy-paste is one of the greatest sources of silent programming errors and
plagiarism.

## Getting Good ##

One of the best ways to practice programming is to write the same program over
and over. Repetition is just as important in programming as it is in something
like music or sports. After spending 30 minutes writing a program, you might
feel like throwing it away and re-writing it would be dumb. And yet, it's the
smartest thing you can do.

## Getting Help ##

The instructor and TA monitor the course Discord server, so asking questions in
the #mcb185 channel will get you the fastest response. You may get answers from
other students even sooner. Email will also work.

The instructor and TA also hold _coderies_, which are online, small group
programming sessions. Not only is this a good way to meet your classmates and
get personalized help in a cozy setting, it's also a _required_ part of your
participation grade. Sign-ups are managed via Calendly. See Canvas and Discord
for the schedule and URL.

## Getting Started ##

This course is organized as a GitHub repository. GitHub is a website that lets
you store and manage Git repositories. While Git was designed for source code
management, it can be used to manage all kinds of projects. Git allows multiple
people to work on the same files without anyone over-writing anyone else's
work. You will always know who did what and when.

There are several services similar to GitHub, but GitHub is the most popular.
Every bioinformatics developer should have a GitHub account. Your repositories
and activity are part of your CV. If you don't have a GitHub account, it's time
to point your web browser to [GitHub](https://github.com) and create an
account.

Choose a username. Your GitHub account will be part of your CV, so choose a
name that future you won't be embarrassed by. After setting your email and
password, choose the free plan and then answer a few questions about your
interests to create your account. Go to your email to verify your email
address.

To begin the course, start at `unit0-setup.md`.
